                                                                                                                                         Humza Iqbal
                                                                                                                                         January 26 2016
                                                                                                                                         GSI: Scott Shell
                                                                       Diagnostic Essay
 
We have also come to this hallowed spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of Now. This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism. Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy. Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice. Now is the time to lift our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood. Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children.

    The above text comes from the famous 'I have a Dream Speech' by MLK Jr. In this excerpt, he explains why they have marched to Washington DC, and explains that reform via gradual policy is not enough. 
     'We have also come to this hallowed spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of Now'. In the opening sentence, MLK wastes no time opening with a strong statement clearly emphasizing that now is the time for action. While this line works quite well within the context of the speech given the subject matter, it also works in the context of an introduction serving as a message that now is the time to pay attention.  MLK ends this opening sentence with the word 'Now', and in doing so he sets the stage for the rest of the paragraph in that many sentences in the paragraph begin with the word Now. 
     In the next sentence, MLK then uses the interesting phrase 'engage in the luxury of cooling off' in reference to the protests that had happened recently in the name of the Civil Rights Movement.  After such protests, the people were left with two choices, to either absorb what had happened and proceed slowly from there, or to build on that action with more action. Of course, it is harder to engage in this action because it requires time, commitment, and energy, and this is why MLK calls passivity a luxury. The very phrase 'cooling off' … The point is reinforced with the analogy 'take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism'. Again MLK is saying that people would rather take things gradually, and by portraying it as a drug, he is asserting that the more people decide to follow the path of least resistance, the more likely people are to continue following it. 
